---
layout:     post
title: "CS61A-Discussion 03"
subtitle:   "Data Abstraction"
author: "Tianxiang Gao"
date: "May 12, 2015"
header-img: "img/post-bg-02.jpg"
---
Discussion 03: Recursion and Tree Recusion
------------------------------------------
We don't have to worry about *how* code is implemented, but just have to know *what* it does.

* **Constructors** are functions that build the abstract data type
* **Selectors** are functions that retrieve information from the data type
<hr>
## 1 Data Abstraction 

### 1.1 Data Abstraction Practice

<ol>
<li>Hadley Cycle. Write a function <code>near_thirty(city, diff)</code> that checks whether an input city is within <code>diff</code> degrees of 30 degrees N or 30 degrees S.</li>
<pre><code>def near_thirty(city, diff):
    city_lat = get_lat(city)
    return abs(city_lat - 30) <= 30 or abs(city_lat + 30) <= 30
</code></pre>

<li>Implement <code>closer_city</code>, a function that takes a latitude, longitude, and two cities, and returns the name of the city that is relatively closer to the provided latitude and
longitude.</li>

<pre><code>def closer_city(lat, lon, city1, city2):
    target_city = make_city('new', lat, lon)
    dist1 = distance(target_city, city1)
    dist2 = distance(target_city, city2)
    return get_name(city1) if dist1 < dist2 else get_name(city2)
</code></pre>
</ol>
<br>

## 2 Let’s be rational!

### 2.1 Rational Number Practice
<ol>
<li>Write a function that returns the given rational number <code>x</code> raised to positive power <code>e</code>.</li>
<pre><code>from math import pow
def rational_pow(x,e):
    return 1 if e == 0 else mul_rational(x, rational_pow(x, e-1))
</code></pre>
<li>The irrational number $e ≈ 2.718$ can be generated from an infinite series. Write a function <code>approx_e</code> that returns a rational number approximation of <code>e</code> to <code>iter</code> amount of iterations. We’ve provided a factorial function.</li>
<pre><code>def factorial(n):
    return 1 if n == 0 else n * factorial(n-1)

def approx_e(iter=100):
    e = rational(0, 1)
    for i in range(iter):
        e = add_rationals(e, rational(1, factorial(i)))
    return e</code></pre>

<li>Implement <code>inverse_rational</code> and <code>div_rationals</code></li>
<pre><code>def inverse_rational(x):
    """Returns the inverse of the given non-zero rational
    number"""
    n = number(x)
    d = denom(x)
    return rational(d, n)

def div_rationals(x, y):
    """Returns x / y for given rational x and non-zero
    rational y"""
    return mul_rational(x, inverse_rational(y))
</code></pre>
</ol>

## My Life for Abstraction

### 3.1 Lists, or Zerg Rush!
<ol>
<li>Implement the constructors and selectors for the unit data abstraction using lists. Each unit will have a string catchphrase and an integer amount of damage.</li>
<pre><code>def make_unit(catchphrase, damage):
    return [catchphrase, damage]

def get_catchphrase(unit):
    return unit[0]

def get_damage(unit):    
    return unit[1]</code></pre>
</ol>

### 3.2 Data Abstraction Violations, or, I Long For Combat!
Data abstraction violations happen when we assume we know something about how our data is represented. For example, if we use pairs and we forget to use a selector and instead use the index.
<ol>
<li>Let’s simulate a battle between units!</li>
<pre><code>def battle(first, second):
    """Simulates a battle between the first and second unit
    >>> zealot = make_unit('My life for Aiur!', 16)
    >>> zergling = make_unit('GRAAHHH!', 5)
    >>> winner = battle(zergling, zealot)
    GRAAHHH!
    My life for Aiur!
    >>> winner is zealot
    True
    """
    print(get_catchphrase(first))
    print(get_catchphrase(second))
    return first if get_damage(first) > get_damage(second) else second
</code></pre>
</ol>

### 3.3 Functional Pairs, or, We Require More Minerals

<pre><code>def pair(x, y):
    """Return a function that represents a pair."""
    def get(index):
        if index == 0:
            return x
        elif index == 1:
            return y
    return get

def select(p, i):
    """Return the element at index i of pair p"""
    return p(i)
</code></pre>

<ol>
<li>Write constructors and selectors for a data abstraction that combines an integer amount
of minerals and gas together into a bundle. Use functional <code>pair</code> and <code>select</code>.</li>
<pre><code>def make_resource_bundle(minerals, gas):
    return pair(minerals, gas)

def get_minerals(bundle):
    return select(bundle, 0)

def get_gas(bundle):
    return select(bundle, 1)
</code></pre>
</ol>

### 3.4 Putting It All Together
<ol>
<li>Let’s make a <code>building</code> pair that is constructed with a unit data type and a resource bundle data type. This time take your choice of lists or functional pairs in representing a building. Make sure not to violate any data abstractions.</li>
<pre><code>def make_building(unit, bundle):
    return pair(unit, bundle)

def get_unit(building):
    return select(building, 0)

def get_bundle(building):
    return select(building, 1)
</code></pre>
<li>Implement <code>build_unit</code>.</li>
<pre><code>def build_unit(building, bundle):
    """Constructs a unit if given the minimum amount of
    resources. Otherwise, prints an error message.
    >>> barracks = make_building(make_unit(’Go go go!’, 6),
    ... make_resource_bundle(50, 0))
    >>> marine = build_unit(barracks, make_resource_bundle(20,
    20))
    We require more minerals!
    >>> marine = build_unit(barracks, make_resource_bundle(50,
    0))
    >>> print(get_catchphrase(marine))
    Go go go!
    """
    resource_minerals = get_minerals(bundle)
    resource_gas = get_gas(bundle)

    bundle_needed = get_bundle(building)
    minerals_needed = get_minerals(bundle_needed)
    gas_needed = get_gas(bundle_needed)

    if resource_minerals < minerals_needed:
        return print('We require more minerals!')

    if resource_gas < gas_needed:
        return print('We require more vespene gas!') 
    
    return get_unit(building)       
</code></pre>
<li>Reimplement the <code>resource</code> abstraction to use lists instead of functional pairs. Then verify that all the code that use the <code>resource</code> still works.</li>
<pre><code>def make_resource_bundle(minerals, gas):
    return [minerals, gas]

def get_minerals(bundle):
    return bundle[0]

def get_gas(bundle):
    return bundle[1]
</code></pre>
</ol>